---
title: FuzzGen: Automatic Fuzzer Generation
author: Team Olympic
date: 2020-11-04
categories: []
tags: [fuzzing, bug-finding, ]
pin: true
---

## Paper Info
- **Paper Name**: FuzzGen: Automatic Fuzzer Generation
- **Conference**: USENIX Security '20
- **Author List**: Kyriakos Ispoglou, Daniel Austin, Vishwath Mohan, Mathias Payer
- **Link to Paper**: [here](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/sec20-ispoglou.pdf)
- **Food**: Pairs well with peanut butter cookies

# Introduction

Fuzzing is a great way to find bugs. Nobody contests this.
However, fuzzing libraries is hard because their APIs are generally not designed to be resilient against malformed data at the ABI level - indeed, if you pass an invalid pointer to memcpy, the program will crash in libc, and this is not a bug in libc.

Because of this, the general technique for fuzzing libraries is to write a "harness", a program which can take an entropy source and transform it into a meaningful series of API calls.
Writing these harnesses is a very time-consuming and tedious part of bug-finding, and so this paper aims to automate this process.

_FuzzGen_, the tool which is the paper's main contribution, works by analyzing the library and its clients to infer API requirements, and then synthesizes a harness which links against the library and can be hooked up to a fuzzer.

# Analysis

First, FuzzGen identifies the API that will be fuzzed by intersecting the names of the exported functions in the library object with the names of the exported funtcions in the library's header files.
Then, it scrapes the filesystem for binaries which link against that library and use these APIs.
Once it has the client libraries, it can begin its main analysis phase.

## The A2DG

FuzzGen constructs an _Abstract API Dependency Graph_, or A2DG, 

## Identifying appropriate argument values
